Hello and welcome back to the barrett website project, this time around im learning go and came back to this project so that
i could build something familiar without needing to worry about logic. this gives me a great opportunity to focus on the syntax
and intracacies of golang.

So far i just plan on replacing the python backend and uhh yea thats it.

i have not been pushing to github cause ive been a lazy bones, and ive been doing coursework
i dont know if anyone reads these yap seshes i do but if you are then uhh hey coolguy

ill push more i promise, for all my fans (drek and barrett(mostly barrett))
shoutout those guys, without them i would not be coding like i am now

little rant uhh
learning golang has been fun but man i need to get better at dealing with walls, its so demotivating to try and learn something 
completely new and to like not even know how or where to start.
anyways, ive committed myself to this journery so here i am to stay.

also i think its really cool that drek and barrett have commited to my project, 
feels cool to see them next to me as if were even close to equals

if your wondering why all my lines are so short, its cause im on a laptop and they go off screen
why am i rambling you may ask? cause its 7:32 am on 3/20/26 and im sleep deprived asf at work ok goodbye.


testing commit thingy

3/27/26
coming back after work weekend to this project. just wanted to give my little thoughts and update, plans for today etc.
so first off golang is really weird, im picking it up more and more for sure, it doesnt feel fast.
i feel like ive understood the error handling. but writing pretty much anything is still weird, mostly because i feel like most
of what ive done is lookup how to write x, paste and understand x. so that leaves me feeling very uneasy about writing the lang still
but in terms of reading it i think im getting much better, will keep working on it so ye.


uhh alright, feel like ive got most of what i can out of this project tbh, i could finish the last few functions but im lazy
and id rather go build something interesting so uhh yea bye bye :)